New page: "Expectations for OSS Contributors" (#1275)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/docs/contributing/oss-expectations.md

---
title: "Expectations for OSS Contributors"
---

Whether it's a dbt package, a plugin, `dbt-core`, or this very documentation site, contributing to the open source code that supports the dbt ecosystem is a great way to level yourself up as a developer, and to give back to the community. The goal of this page is to help you understand what to expect when contributing to dbt open source software (OSS). While we can only speak for our own experience as open source maintainers, many of these guidelines apply when contributing to other open source projects, too.

> Have you seen things in other OSS projects that you quite like, and think we could learn from? Send us a message, or open a discussion--we're always excited to hear from you.

Reviewer: >Send us a message
who? how?

Author: > who? how?

good question! do you think this could be #community-strategy, or does this feel like conversation warrants its own dedicated swimlane?

> open a discussion

I think docs.getdbt.com is a good place

Reviewer: I'd be happy with either #community-strategy or #dbt-core-development (or perhaps #package-ecosystem if their feedback specifically relates to those). As we start to expand our vision of "community" beyond just Slack, probably community-strategy is best if they're in Slack, or the docs.getdbt repo if they’re not 👍

Reviewer 2: Can we put the preferred avenue first?
> open a [discussion on docs.dbt.com](https://github.com/dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com/discussions/new) or start a Slack conversation in the appropriate channel, for example, #community-strategy,  #dbt-core-development, or  #package-ecosystem. We always appreciate hearing from you! 

Should we link to the slack channels?

There’s a very practical reason, too: OSS prioritizes our collective knowledge and experience over any one person’s. We don’t have experience using every database, operating system, security environment, ... We rely on the community of OSS users to hone our product capabilities and documentation to the wide variety of contexts in which it operates. In this way, dbt gets to be the handiwork of thousands, rather than a few dozen.

### We take seriously our role as maintainers

In that capacity, we cannot and will not fix every bug ourselves, or code up every feature worth doing. Instead, we’ll do our best to respond to new issues with context (including links to related issues), feedback, alternatives/workarounds, and (whenever possible) pointers to code that would aid a community contributor. If a change is so tricky or involved that the initiative rests solely with us, we’ll do our best to explain the complexity, and when / why we could foresee prioritizing it. Our role also includes maintenance of the backlog of issues, such as closing duplicates, proposals we don’t intend to support, or stale issues (no activity for 180 days).

### Initiative is everything

> Given that we, as maintainers, will not be able to resolve every bug or flesh out every feature request—if you, as a community member, want to see something change in dbt, the initiative rests with you.

Reviewer 2: wondering if we can make this applicable to docs too by removing "dbt"? I also changed the sentence a little.
```suggestion
Given that we, as maintainers, will not be able to resolve every bug or flesh out every feature request, we empower you, as a community member, to initiate a change.
```

A discussion is best suited to propose a Big Idea, such as brand-new capability in dbt Core, or a new section of the product docs. Anyone can open a discussion, add a comment to an existing one, or reply in a thread.

What to expect from a new Discussion? Hopefully, comments from other members of the community, who like your idea or have their own ideas for how it could be improved. The most helpful comments are ones that describe the kinds of experiences users and readers should have. Unlike an **issue**, there is no specific code change that would “resolve” a Discussion.

If, over the course of a discussion, we do manage to reach consensus on a way forward, we’ll open a new issue that references the discussion for context. That issue will connect desired outcomes to specific implementation details, as well as perceived limitations and open questions. It will serve as a formal proposal and request for comment.

## Issues

An issue could be a bug you’ve identified while using the product or reading the documentation. It could also be a specific idea you’ve had for how it could be better.

### Best practices for issues

> - Issues are **not** for support / troubleshooting / debugging help. Please open a discussion instead (so other future users can search for it), or post in the dbt Slack Community for help understanding the problem you’re running into.

Reviewer: Should these discussions always be opened on the docs.getdbt.com (to be renamed to more developer-friendly) repo? If so we may want to call that out @gwenwindflower

Author: We've also gotten a _few_ Q&A in the `dbt-core` repo; I agree it's best to have these Q&A centralized

Author: We've also gotten a small handful of Q&A/troubleshooting discussions in `dbt-core`. I agree it's best to centralize them in one place, where we can more easily search / point people / catch duplicates. FWIW it does look like [it's possible to transfer discussions](https://docs.github.com/en/discussions/managing-discussions-for-your-community/managing-discussions-in-your-repository#transferring-a-discussion)

Reviewer 3: People inevitably will do this anyway. Do we want to outline what to expect when that happens so we can link them here?

Author: Good call. There is also a fine & fuzzy boundary between "I want help debugging" (discussion) and "I think I found a bug in dbt" (issue / bug report). There will be some judgment involved each time, and I expect we'll get better over time.

Do we feel right about this flow:
- Someone opens an issue that's actually a troubleshooting/support request
- The person (pre-)triaging [converts the issue into a Q&A discussion](https://docs.github.com/en/discussions/managing-discussions-for-your-community/moderating-discussions#converting-an-issue-to-a-discussion), and transfers the discussion to the central Q&A repository (whichever we decide, maybe this one)

Reviewer 3: yeah that sounds reasonable to me. would we convert it after closing like when we discovered it's not a bug at the same time they fixed their issue?

Author: Converting the issue to a discussion also closes the issue. (Did I understand your question right?)

Reviewer 3: not quite. the issue is closed because we figured it out. the reporter is satisfied and has left he conversation. Would we convert a closed issue to a discussion if the conclusion of that closed issue was that it should have been a discussion so that other people can find that answer better?

Author: Ah, yes, I think so! Something we should start doing going forward, once we know which repo we want to use for centralizing Q&A. I'm going to go ahead and say it should be this one :)

### You’ve opened a new issue. What can you expect to happen?

In our most critical repositories (such as `dbt-core`), **our goal is to respond to most new issues within 2 standard work days.** This response will include the context, feedback, and pointers that we can offer as maintainers. Depending on the nature of your issue, it might be well suited to an external contribution, from you or another community member.

**What does “triage” mean?** In some repositories, we use a `triage` label to keep track of issues that need a response from a maintainer. In the `dbt-core` repo, we also tag issues with a “team” that will be providing the response.

**What if I’m opening an issue in a smaller repository?** We’ve open sourced a number of software projects over the years; not all of them have the same activity or maintenance guarantees as `dbt-core`. Check to see if other recent issues have responses, or when the last commit was added to the `main` branch.

> **If my issue is lingering...** Sorry for the delay! If your issue still has the `triage` label attached, we’re still aware of it as something that needs a response. If it’s been more than two weeks without a response, we’d encourage you to comment, reminding us that you’re awaiting.

Reviewer: Should they @ someone? I know there are some small repos that don't have someone subscribed to all events, unlike the core/utils repos. 

Maybe we want a group (make public the package maintainers group?) or we make a looker/hex dash that pulls through all activities on quiet repos?

Author: Both of those are solid ideas. I do get many of these GitHub notifications, they're just buried in a sea of... all these GitHub notifications

I've done some dbt/looker/hex-y work in this vein for the Core team's repos, and I think that's a good thread to pull on. The only downside right now is fairly high latency (once daily syncs from GitHub). Doesn't matter as much in repos where our goal is less around guaranteed timely response, and more around guaranteeing these don't fall off the radar

Reviewer: > they're just buried in a sea of... all these GitHub notifications

oof. 💯  😣

> Doesn't matter as much in repos where our goal is less around guaranteed timely response, and more around guaranteeing these don't fall off the radar

Yeah that's what I was thinking. the only other option is to Operationalise Our Analytics™️ and reverse ETL them into Slack or something, but I don't know that that's any better.

Reviewer 3: yeah I'd like some sort of dashboard for this stuff. But if an @ that has a few people behind it is acceptable that also works if it's documented here.

Reviewer 2: We could leverage GitHub teams for an @mention so they're not tied to an individual? I think we can set up notifications to email us for @mentions.

Author: Shall we set up `@dbt-labs/oss-maintainers`?

Reviewer 2: I love that idea @jtcohen6!

Author: Just created @dbt-labs/oss-maintainers. Open to who should be in this group, and what the tagline should be

### Issue labels

In all likelihood, the maintainer who responds will also add a number of labels. Not all of these labels are used in every repository.

In some cases, the right resolution to an open issue might be tangential to the codebase. The right path forward might be in another codebase (we'll transfer it), a documentation update, or a change that can be made in user-space code. In other cases, the issue might describe functionality that the maintainers are unwilling or unable to incorporate into the main codebase. In these cases, a maintainer will close the issue (perhaps using a `wontfix` label) and explain why.

| tag | description |
| --- | ----------- |
| `triage` | This is a new issue which has not yet been reviewed by a maintainer. This label is removed when a maintainer reviews and responds to the issue. |
| `bug` | This issue represents a defect or regression from the behavior that's documented, or that you reasonably expect |
| `enhancement` | This issue represents net-new functionality, including an extension of an existing capability |

> | `good first issue` | This issue does not require deep knowledge of the `dbt-core` codebase to implement. This issue is appropriate for a first-time contributor. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `good first issue` | This issue does not require deep knowledge of the codebase to implement. This issue is appropriate for a first-time contributor. |
```

| `help wanted` | This issue is trickier than a "good first issue." The required changes are scattered across the codebase, or more difficult to test. The maintainers are happy to help an experienced community contributor; they aren't planning to prioritize this issue themselves. |

> | `duplicate` | This issue is functionally identical to another open issue. The `dbt-core` maintainers will close this issue and encourage community members to focus conversation on the other one. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `duplicate` | This issue is functionally identical to another open issue. The maintainers will close this issue and encourage community members to focus conversation on the other one. |
```

**Automation that can help us:** Many repositories have a template for pull request descriptions, which will include a checklist that must be completed before the PR can be merged. You don’t have to do all of these things to get an initial PR, but they definitely help. Those many include things like:
- **Tests!** When you open a PR, some tests and code checks will run. (For security reasons, some may need to be approved by a maintainer.) We will not merge any PRs with failing tests. If you’re not sure why a test is failing, please say so, and we’ll do our best to get to the bottom of it together.
- **Contributor License Agreement** (CLA): This ensures that we can merge your code, without worrying about unexpected implications for the copyright or license of open source dbt software. For more details, read: ["Contributor License Agreements"](contributor-license-agreements)
- **Changelog:** In projects that include a number of changes in each release, we need a reliable way to signal what's been included. The mechanism for this will vary by repository, so keep an eye out for notes about how to update the changelog.

> **If my PR is lingering...?** This happens, despite our best efforts—we promise it’s not intentional! If it’s been more than two weeks, we’d encourage you to comment, reminding us that you’re awaiting review—for best results, say what in particular you’d like feedback on, and explain what would it mean to you to have this merged in.

Reviewer: Same as above: 

> Should they @ someone? I know there are some small repos that don't have someone subscribed to all events, unlike the core/utils repos.
> 
> Maybe we want a group (make public the package maintainers group?) or we make a looker/hex dash that pulls through all activities on quiet repos?
